Let me just give you a little bit of
background about the Flexbox grid system
and how it works and
then we'll jump into the next code pen and
we'll build a grid system using this.
So the way we want to think about a grid
system with Flexbox is that we're
going to have a series of boxes
whatever they happen to be they have
some kind of content inside of them.
And your HTML may look something like
this I'm using just the div element
here because they're clearly no
content no meaning whatsoever.
This does not have to be divs and in fact
in a moment you'll see we do things with
figures or you could do articles and
sections and any of the HTML elements but
the critical piece of this
HTML is that you have,
I have one element that
wraps around at all.
That's the parent, the flex container.
And you're gonna have
the individual boxes.
Those are the flex items, or the children.
So that's the way the HTML would look for
that.
The CSS winds up looking
something like this.
So on the row, the parent,
we're going to say display flex.
We do a flex flow of row wrap.
Justify the content however we want
to justify it, might be centered,
might be spaced between something else.
And then you can also set up a gap.
This is a new property in Flexbox.
You may be familiar if you know
a little bit about CSS grid.
There used to be a thing called grid gap.
Now it is all just gap on the grid side,
and
on the Flexbox side gap is a new
property that's available to us.
So you can in fact specify
a gap now inside of Flexbox.
Then for your individual boxes,
you can set up a series of flex basis.
This is not real code here.
I need a whole lot more stuff,
a lot of media queries in order for
this to actually be a real thing but the
idea is that you can set your flex basis
to one size for desktop a larger size for
a tablet and a really big size for
the phone that's typically the way you
would set this, just kind of thing up.
So, that's the way the code is
going to look broadly speaking,
as we start to set up
a Flexbox based grid system.
And if you take a look at Bootstrap and
Foundation and UI kit and
all the rest of them, you will discover
that they use Flexbox in this very way.
Okay, you can also rearrange your columns.
That is something else we're gonna try
here in our Flexbox grid system in just
a moment so that you can put things in
order that are appropriate to your HTML to
search engine optimization with that you
have the important information listed
first in the source order the less
important information listed later and
then just reorder using the order
property inside of Flexbox.
Alright so
we are on two chapter two in our notes.
And so this is divided up this
next exercise that we're gonna do,
we're gonna try three pieces of this.
So the first thing that we're going to do,
we're gonna build a desktop
based system only.
Just so you can see how this works without
having to deal with media queries.
Then we'll go back and
retrofit our grid system so
that does in fact work
across different devices.
So we'll add the media queries and
make changes to our values.
And then I have a little challenge for
you to try.
So that is the order of the next few
things that we're gonna do here.
So let's start here by part to a desktop
only, and says the starting code pen.
And this is the layout that we have here.
So as you'll see, we have a whole
bunch of these beautiful boxes, right.
They lovely, and
they're all different colors and
they have this lovely SVG
based background, okay?
And they're all just stacked on top of
each other because we have no layout code
here present.
So let's just check out our HTML first.
So you'll notice that I have
a series of comments here.
We have one row or one box per column
we're gonna build a four column layout and
as we scroll down here's we have two
boxes each spanning two columns so
this is what we're gonna code and
so forth,
there's five rows in all,
you can just read the comments there.
For each unit of content,
we have it set up as follows.
This might be a new HTML element to you,
this is the figure element.
And figures are incredibly
useful HTML elements.
They start with figure
they end with figure.
And inside of them, you might be under
the conception that a figure would
have an image and then some text that
goes underneath the image would be in
an image tag, and the text underneath
would be in the fig caption tag.
However, you can use figures for
a whole bunch of different things so
you see here I don't actually have
an image I just have a div with a class of
one that has the styling that makes
the little the textured background and
the color and so
forth I'll show you that in a second.
You could do this with the pre element and
you could put in ASCII art.
That would be one way you could do this.
You could use the pre element,
maybe the code element.
You could put in some code here as
an example with a caption underneath.
You can reverse the order of these.
You can have the figure caption first and
whatever it is you're demonstrating later.
You can have multiple images inside of
your figure, so in other words you could
either put up a nice layout of some number
of images or you could do something
like an image carousel or
some other interactive kind of image.
So figures are incredibly useful and
what they are intended to
indicate is that this is a unit of
content so we have a graphic or
code or something and
then an explanation that goes with it.
That is the right semantic markup for
that type of thing.
Okay, so it's pretty much like
this all the way through.
I've got some notes in here.
We'll go through all of that in detail.
And then down here in the CSS,
let's look at what we've got.
I've got an empty spot here.
We'll start writing some CSS, but
I've already given you some obviously.
So just so you know what's here we
have our border box declaration that I
described to you earlier.
And then underneath of that we have
the body tag turning off our padding,
we turn off the border.
We have a font family and
then I have a background happens
to be a gradient background here.
The figure itself has
a little bit of margin and
padding associated with
it which I've turned off.
Here's the caption styling,
just the background color, a color and
a little bit of padding
to make it look pretty.
Here is a style that's going
to reduce some of the margins.
Remember that H2, in particular by default
has a big margin associated with it.
This reduces all of those margins
to half a realm with this
particular selector makes it
look pretty and symmetrical and
then we've got this is
the textured background here,
the texture comes from right
from within code pen itself it's
something you can just download and
plug in so here it is it's an SVG.
And this is the formula
that makes it display.
I've set a minimum height on these,
again, just for
demonstration purposes if I didn't
put it a minimum height with this
kind of background SVG,
you wouldn't see it at all, right,
because it has no actual content inside of
that div so you would just see nothing.
So we have to put in a little bit of
height and then each of these have a class
associated with them which
gives them a different color.
So that's the code here
that we have to start with.
All right, so with this HTML,
let's start with our first row here.
We wanna have one box per column,
we are going to have four
columns going across the page.
Reason I pick four columns it's
a nice symmetrical number and
all of the responsive design
frameworks use 12 columns on the page.
It's a lot of work to code 12 columns and
I'm not sure you actually learn
a whole lot more by going all the way
up to 12 than you do using four.
So what we're going to do first here
is what I like to do is this I actually
like to click the little triangle
right next to each of those figures.
And you'll just condense them
into a single line of code.
So you can think about those
as those are our boxes,
we don't actually need to
add any HTML inside of them.
Those are our four boxes.
If those then our boxes on the page,
we need to have a parent around them
to give them flex powers, right.
So to do that, we're gonna put a div
around this with a class of row.
Why div?
Because this is doing nothing
except holding a class for us.
It's not trying to convey any
meaning here whatsoever, okay?
Div with a class of row series of
figures that come inside of it.
All right we can do the same type of thing
here for all of our other examples so
here in row two let's do that again
div with a class of row let's
go into go around to figures So
again, nothing is going to happen.
We haven't written any CSS to deal
with this row that we're writing here.
It's just going on a long
down the page In row three,
we have a big box and a little box
Still div with a class of row Slash div.
And then here in row four,
we've got just a single box that's
gonna span all the way across the page.
We can still do that with Flexbox.
And then finally in row five,
we're going to have small,
bigger small going across our row.
So let's set that up as well.
Div with a class of row,
okay, so the person who was
asking before how do you keep
some of them some number
of boxes on the row,
this is the way that you would do it.
You were artificially constraining
him using HTML and so
we've specified exactly
where each row should occur.
Now we're gonna write the CSS to make
it look the way we want it to look.
Okay, so in our CSS box here,
clearly we need to make a row class.